---
layout: post
title: smarter dragging
---

It's quite recently that I got serious about javascript.
As I started to learn javascript, the first thing I thought was it's absolutely different from development based on GUI toolkit.


In android development, I could create "custom View":http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/ui/custom-components.html overriding View class and I was given <code>onDraw()</code> method for re-rendering.

In Flex development, I can create "custom component":http://help.adobe.com/en_US/flex/using/WS460ee381960520ad-2811830c121e9107ecb-7ff9.html overriding UIComponent class and I was given <code>updateDisyplayList()</code> method.

But when it comes to HTML and javascript development, it seems to me I was given no such stuff. So I wondered how I could manage timing of re-rendering.

For example, it's not good idea to do some process with event handling, since mouseover event can be fired more than once a rendering cycle. 

{% highlight javascript %}
window.onmousemove = function() {
    // dom manipulating and some process
}
{% endhighlight %}

Now that javascript has "requestAnimationFrame":https://developer.mozilla.org/en/DOM/window.mozRequestAnimationFrame method, I was granted the way to manage  with making a flag <code>isDirty</code>.

{% highlight javascript %}
window.onmousemove = function() {
    if(isDirty) {
        return;
    }
    isDirty = true;
    requestAnimationFrame(function(){
        // update here
        isDirty = false;
    });
}
{% endhighlight %}

I'm going to put here a test app for dragging and animation. It won't work with IE since IE have yet to implement CSS transitions.

<iframe src="/demo/drag-demo.html" id='iframe' scrolling="no" style="display: block; border: none; margin: 0 auto; height: 400px; width: 100%;" ></iframe>

source on the github "here":https://github.com/smagch/smagch.github.com/tree/master/demo/drag-demo.html

I found javascript quite cool and productive in so far as application is tiny like this.

